# End User License Agreement

## 1.   License

1.1.    Subject to Licensee's payment of the applicable fees and to Licensee's compliance with other terms and conditions of this Agreement, Oro grants Licensee a non-transferable, non-assignable, non-sublicensable, annual based, single user, worldwide license to use the Software, solely for internal purposes, in accordance with the Software's technical documentation. In addition, Licensee shall be entitled to make Modifications to the Software, as further detailed in this agreement, acknowledging that such Modifications are at its own risk and responsibility and may impair the Warranty detailed herein.  Modifications may not be done for the bundling of the Software into any Licensee and/or third party product and such Modifications shall be made for internal use of Licensee only.<br/>
1.2.    Term of license (according to number of annual terms purchased) ("Term") and number of single user licenses purchased ("Users") shall be as specified in one or more applicable Oro ordering form in the template attached hereto as Schedule A (the "Oro Order Form") to be separately executed with Licensee. Without derogating from any other rights of Oro, in the event that Licensee's actual number of Users of a particular Software license exceeds the licensed number of Users, or is used beyond the purchased Term, then without derogating from any right or remedy of Oro, Licensee shall promptly provide Oro with written notice and pay Oro the fees required to license such additional Users or additional Term in accordance with the commercial terms set out in the Oro Order Form.<br/>
1.3.    Licensee shall implement reasonable controls to ensure that it does not exceed the maximum number of licensed Users of the Software or the Term of the license purchased. Oro reserves the right to audit Licensee's use of the Software during normal business hours and with reasonable notice. Licensee confirms that it is aware that the Software contains means enabling Oro to monitor, control and receive information about the number of Users making use of the Software or the Term during which it is being used and accordingly Oro may separately invoice Licensee for such excess use.<br/>
1.4.    Oro shall provide to Licensee the Software, including the associated technical documentation, for use by Licensee in accordance with this Agreement. Subject to Sections 1.1-1.3 above, Licensee is authorized to make one copy of the Software for backup purposes.<br/>
1.5.    Licensee acknowledges that portions of the Software are also freely available to the public under Oro's open source version of the Software, known as OroCRM Community Edition, subject to certain conditions, with limited warranties and other limited assurances, and without service or support. As an express condition for the license granted hereunder, Licensee agrees that any use during the term of this Agreement of such open source versions of the Software, shall be deemed use of the Software for purposes of the calculation of fees payable under the Agreement.

## 2.   License Exclusions

2.1.    Except as expressly authorized herein, Licensee shall not:
<ol type="a">
 <li>use or deploy the Software in excess of the number of Users specified in the applicable Oro Order Form or beyond the fully paid for Term;</li>
 <li>distribute, sublicense, disclose, market, rent, lease, or offer remote computing and or hosting services, networking, batch processing or transfer of, the Software to any third party, or permit any person or entity to have access to the Software by means of a time sharing, remote computing or hosting services, networking, batch processing, service bureau or time sharing arrangement;</li>
 <li>export the Software in violation of U.S. Department of Commerce export administration regulations.</li>
</ol>

2.2.    No license, right or interest in any Oro trademark, trade name or service mark is granted hereunder.

## 3.   Fees and Payment Terms
Fees and payment terms are set forth in each Oro Order Form executed with Licensee.

## 4.   Title and Protection

4.1.    Oro (or its third party providers or licensors) retain title to all portions of the Software and other Proprietary Materials and any copies thereof. The Proprietary Materials contain valuable proprietary information, and Licensee shall not disclose them to anyone other than those of its employees or consultants under written nondisclosure obligations at least as restrictive as those contained in this Agreement, having a need to know for purposes consistent with this Agreement. Licensee shall be responsible for the compliance of such employees or consultants. Licensee shall affix, to each full or partial copy of the Software made by Licensee, all copyright and proprietary information notices as were affixed to the original. The obligations set forth in this Section shall survive termination of this Agreement.<br/>
4.2.    Licensee acknowledges that the Software includes certain open source and/or third party software, which is governed by the applicable license terms thereof. A list of such open source and/or third party software, as amended from time to time, including the links applicable to such open source software and/or third party licensing terms are specified in the product release notes for each Software version and can also be found at http://www.orocrm.com/thirdpartylicenses. The use of the open source and/or third party software bundled within the Software is subject to the provisions of such license agreements, and in the event of any contradiction between the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of such applicable license agreements, the provisions of the applicable open source and/or third party license agreement shall prevail solely with respect to such open source and/or third party software products, Oro makes no indemnity with respect to any open source and/or third party code included within the Software, and for greater clarity, the indemnity set out in Section 5 (Patent and Copyright Indemnity) below does not apply to any such open source and/or third party code.<br/>
4.3.    If the Software is acquired by or on behalf of a unit or agency of the U.S. Government (the "Government"), the Government agrees that such Software is "commercial computer software" or "commercial computer software documentation" and that, absent a written agreement to the contrary, the Government's rights with respect to such Software are limited by the terms of this Agreement, pursuant to applicable FAR and/or DFARS and successor regulations.

## 5.   Patent and Copyright Indemnity
For such time as Licensee is receiving Support Services (as defined below and further detailed in Exhibit B), Oro shall indemnify and defend Licensee against third party claims, awarded by final ruling of applicable court, that the Software infringes any United States or European patent or copyright; provided that Oro is given prompt notice of such claim and is given information, reasonable assistance and sole authority to defend or settle the claim. In the defense or settlement of the claim, Oro shall obtain for Licensee the right to continue using the Software, replace or modify the Software so that it becomes non-infringing while giving equivalent performance or, if Oro determines that such remedies are not reasonably available, remove the infringing portion of the Software, and refund the prorated portion of any prepaid but unused fees for the use or support of such Software license. Oro shall have no liability if the alleged infringement is based on (i) a modification (including Modification as defined herein) of the Software by anyone other than, or a combination of the Software with any product or service not provided by, Oro; (ii) use of the Software with equipment not listed in an Oro Order Form or specifically approved for use by Oro with such Software; or (iii) use of the Software other than in accordance with the documentation. This Section 5 together with limitation of liability and liability caps detailed in section 8 hereafter states Oro's entire liability and Licensee's exclusive remedy for infringement.

## 6.   Default and Termination

6.1.    An event of default shall be deemed to occur if: (i) Licensee fails to perform any of its obligations under the Sections entitled "License Exclusions" or "Title and Protection"; (ii) Licensee fails to pay amounts due within seven (7) days of the relevant due date; or (iii) either party fails to perform any other material obligation under this Agreement and such failure remains uncured for more than thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice thereof.<br/>
6.2.    If an event of default occurs, the non-defaulting party, in addition to any other rights available to it under the law, may terminate this Agreement and all licenses granted hereunder by written notice to the defaulting party. Except as specified herein (including Section 5), remedies shall be cumulative and there shall be no obligation to exercise a particular remedy.<br/>
6.3.    Within thirty (30) days after termination of the Software license or expiration of the license Term specified in the Oro Order Form, Licensee shall certify in writing to Oro that Licensee has ceased use of Proprietary Materials and that all copies or embodiments thereof in any form, including partial copies within modified versions, have been destroyed.

## 7.   Warranty

7.1.    Warranty for Software. Oro warrants for a single period of ninety (90) days commencing upon Oro's electronic delivery of the Software to Licensee that the Software will perform, in all material respects, the functions described in the specifications contained in the documentation provided with the Software. Oro will undertake to correct any reported error in accordance with the Support Services Terms and Conditions set forth below in Section 9, subject to the Support Service Exclusions detailed in section 2 of attached Exhibit B (which shall be seen as Warranty exclusions for the purpose of this clause).  Such Support Services shall be Oro's entire liability and Licensee's exclusive remedy under such Warranty and for such errors. In addition, Oro does not warrant Software that has had Modification and/or changes made to it, that the Software will meet Licensee's requirements, that the Software will operate in the combinations which Licensee may select for use, that the operation of the Software will be uninterrupted or error-free, or that all error conditions will be corrected. EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN THIS SECTION ALL SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS PROVIDED "AS IS".<br/>
7.2.    DISCLAIMER. THE EXPRESS WARRANTIES SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 7 ARE THE ONLY WARRANTIES MADE BY ORO WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED BY ORO. ORO MAKES NO OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR ARISING BY CUSTOM OR TRADE USAGE, AND, SPECIFICALLY, MAKES NO WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. ORO'S EXPRESS WARRANTIES SHALL NOT BE ENLARGED, DIMINISHED OR AFFECTED BY, AND NO OBLIGATION OR LIABILITY SHALL ARISE OUT OF, ORO RENDERING TECHNICAL OR OTHER ADVICE OR SERVICE IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE.

## 8.   Limitation of Liability
8.1.    LIABILITY EXCLUSIONS. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT SHALL EXCLUDE OR LIMIT LICENSEE'S LIABILITY FOR BREACH OF THE LICENSES OR RELATED RESTRICTIONS CONTAINED HEREIN OR ANY PARTY'S LIABILITY WHICH CANNOT BE EXCLUDED OR LIMITED BY APPLICABLE LAW. SAVE FOR THE FOREGOING, NEITHER PARTY ACCEPTS AND EACH PARTY HEREBY EXCLUDES ANY LIABILITY FOR LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO TANGIBLE PROPERTY OTHER THAN THAT CAUSED BY ITS GROSS NEGLIGENCE AND HEREBY EXCLUDES ANY OTHER LIABILITY FOR NEGLIGENCE ARISING PURSUANT TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES WILL EITHER PARTY BE LIABLE FOR: LOSS OF REVENUE; LOSS OF ACTUAL OR ANTICIPATED PROFITS; LOSS OF CONTRACTS; LOSS OF THE USE OF MONEY; LOSS OF ANTICIPATED SAVINGS; LOSS OF BUSINESS; LOSS OF OPPORTUNITY; LOSS OF GOODWILL; LOSS OF REPUTATION; LOSS OF, DAMAGE TO OR CORRUPTION OF DATA; OR CONSEQUENTIAL OR INDIRECT LOSS OR SPECIAL, PUNITIVE, OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBT, WHERE SUCH LOSS OR DAMAGE IS ALSO OF A CATEGORY OF LOSS OR DAMAGE ALREADY LISTED), WHETHER FORESEEABLE OR UNFORESEEABLE, BASED ON CLAIMS OF LICENSEE, ORO OR ANY THIRD PARTY ARISING OUT OF ANY BREACH OR FAILURE OF EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY CONDITIONS OR OTHER TERM, BREACH OF CONTRACT, MISREPRESENTATION, NEGLIGENCE, OTHER LIABILITY IN TORT, FAILURE OF ANY REMEDY TO ACHIEVE ITS ESSENTIAL PURPOSE, OR OTHERWISE.<br/>
8.2.    LIABILITY CAP. NOTWITHSTANDING THE FORM (E.G., CONTRACT, TORT, OR OTHERWISE) IN WHICH ANY LEGAL OR EQUITABLE ACTION MAY BE BROUGHT, IN NO EVENT WILL ORO OR ITS SUPPLIERS OR ANYONE ACTING ON ITS BEHALF BE LIABLE FOR DAMAGES, RESTITUTION OR LOSSES, INCLUDING WITH REGARDS TO INDEMNIFICATION UNDER SECTION 5, THAT EXCEED, IN THE AGGREGATE, FOR EACH RESPECTIVE BREACH OR SERIES OF RELATED BREACHES, THE AMOUNT OF FEES PAID BY LICENSEE FOR THE SOFTWARE LICENSE IN THE TWELVE (12) MONTH PERIOD PRIOR TO THE DATE ON WHICH THE EVENT GIVING RISE TO SUCH DAMAGES OR LOSSES OCCURRED.

## 9.   Support Services Terms and Conditions
For the periods specified in the Oro Order Form, Oro will provide Support Services and Updates for the Software as described in Oro's standard Support Services Terms and Conditions, detailed hereafter in Exhibit B.

## 10.  Joint Marketing Activities
The parties shall cooperate to undertake mutually agreed joint marketing activities. 

## 11.  Notices
All notices shall be in writing and sent by first class mail or overnight mail (or courier), transmitted by facsimile (if confirmed by such mailing), or email, to the addresses indicated on the Oro Order Form, or such other address as either party may indicate by at least ten (10) days prior written notice to the other party. Notices to Oro shall be sent to the Contracts Administration Department.

## 12.  Assignment
Licensee may not assign this Agreement without the prior written consent of Oro; provided that such consent shall not be required for assignment to a purchaser of all or substantially all of the assets or equity securities of Licensee who undertakes in writing to be bound by all the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Any prohibited assignment shall be null and void.

## 13.  Entire Agreement
Along with Oro's standard Support Services Terms and Conditions, detailed hereafter in Exhibit B, and the Oro Order Form, this Agreement is the complete and exclusive agreement between the parties, which supersedes all proposals or prior agreements, oral or written, including any other online (click-through) agreement which Licensee may have accepted in conjunction with the downloading of the Software or previous version of the Software, including any beta or open source version of the Software, and all other communications between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof. No purchase order, other ordering document or any hand written or typewritten text which purports to modify or supplement the printed text hereof or the Oro Order Form shall add to or vary the terms thereof unless specifically stated herein. Except as contained in a writing signed by both parties, all such proposed variations or additions are objected to and shall have no force or effect.

## 14.  General
This Agreement is made in and shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, excluding choice of law principles. All proceedings shall be conducted in English. Venue for all proceedings shall be Santa Clara County, California, provided that Oro may seek injunctive relief in any court of competent jurisdiction. The United Nations Convention for the International Sale of Goods shall not apply. The section headings herein are provided for convenience only and have no substantive effect on the construction of this Agreement. Except for Licensee's obligation to pay Oro, neither party shall be liable for any failure to perform due to causes beyond its reasonable control. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable, this Agreement shall be construed without such provision. The failure by a party to exercise any right hereunder shall not operate as a waiver of such party's right to exercise such right or any other right in the future. This Agreement may be amended only by a written document executed by a duly authorized representative of each of the parties. The parties agree to receive electronic documents and accept electronic signatures (information attached or logically associated with such document and clicked or otherwise adopted with an intent to sign) including in counterparts which shall be valid substitutes for paper-based documents and signatures, and the legal validity of a transaction will not be denied on the ground that it is not in writing.

## 15.  Definitions
**"Users"** means the number of single user licenses purchased for the use of the Software under the Oro Order Form entitling each such user to make use of the Software according to the specific terms herein, including section 1 and 2 above.  
**"Modifications"** means any code developed by Licensee or any third party, including without limitation, configuration, integrations, implementations, or localizations to the external layer of the core baseline Software product, including when integrated in/with the Software source code. The term "Modifications" excludes Updates.
**"Proprietary Material"** means the Software, related documentation, and all parts, copies and modifications thereof, and any other information, in whatever form, received by Licensee hereunder, provided, however, such information shall not be deemed Proprietary Material if it (a) is or becomes a part of the public domain through no act or omission of Licensee; or (b) was in Licensee's lawful possession prior to the disclosure and had not been obtained by Licensee from Oro; or (c) is lawfully disclosed to Licensee by a third party without restriction on disclosure; or (d) is independently developed by Licensee without reference to or use of Oro's Proprietary Material.
**"Software"** means Oro's proprietary e-commerce software solution known as the OroCRM™ Enterprise Edition, provided solely in source code form, including associated technical documentation, and all Updates thereof furnished to Licensee as part of Support Services detailed hereafter in Exhibit B. Except as otherwise specified herein, the term Software includes certain open source and/or third party software programs described in Section 4.2. "Software" and does not include any Modifications. 
**"Term"** means the term of license determined according to number of annual terms purchased in the Oro Order Form).
**"Updates"** means all published revisions and corrections to the printed documentation and corrections and new releases of the Software which are generally made available to Oro's supported customers at no additional cost or for media and handling charges only. Updates shall not include any options or future products which Oro sells separately.


# Exhibit B
# SUPPORT SERVICES TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
Unless otherwise defined herein, all capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in the Agreement.
## 1.    “Support Services” consists of:
<ol type="a">
  <li>Advice regarding the downloading, installation and configuration of the Software (including Updates provided by Oro, but excluding for the avoidance of doubt any Modifications to the Software), when used by Licensee on systems that meet the Software’s “System Requirements” specified on Oro’s website at www.orocrm.com/system-requirements.</li>
  <li>Facilities for bug tracking, escalation of problems for priority attention, and access to community-supported FAQs and Forums relating to the Software.</li>
  <li>Assistance with troubleshooting to diagnose and fix errors in the Software.</li>
</ol>
## 2.   Exclusions from Support Services.
Oro shall have no obligation to support (i) versions of the Software other than the then-current and immediately previous releases, which are operated on a supported hardware/operating system platform specified in the release notes for the Software; (ii) altered or modified Software, including any  Modifications either by Licensee or any third party; (iii) Software accessed or used with equipment not specifically approved for use by Oro with such Software; (iv) problems caused by Licensee's negligence, misuse, or hardware malfunction; or (v) use of the Software inconsistent with Oro’s instructions, this Agreement or than in accordance with the documentation provided with the Software. Oro is not responsible for hardware changes necessitated by changes to the Software. Support Services also does not include:
<ol type="a">
  <li>Assistance in the development or debugging of Licensee's system, including the operating system and support tools.</li>
  <li>Information and assistance on technical issues related to the installation, administration, and use of enabling technologies such as databases, computer networks, and communications.</li>
  <li>Assistance with the installation and configuration of hardware including, but not limited to computers, hard disks, networks, and printers.</li>
</ol>
## 3.   Subcontractors.
Oro reserves the right to subcontract any or all of the work to be performed under these Support Terms, and Oro retains responsibility for any work so subcontracted.

## 4.   Licensee Responsibilities.
Licensee shall provide commercially reasonable cooperation and full information to Oro with respect to the furnishing of Support Services under this Agreement.

## 5.   Support Contacts. 
Licensee shall designate one or more support contacts that are authorized to submit Software problems. Licensee may contact Oro on the www.orocrm.com website or at its toll-free Support telephone number.

## 6.   Problem Priority. 
Upon receipt of a properly submitted Software problem, as specified on Oro’s website at www.ororm.com, Oro shall prioritize it in accordance with the guidelines below:
<ol type="a">
  <li>Priority 1 (P1) – A P1 is a catastrophic problem within the Software that severely impacts the Licensee's ability to make use of the Software - The Software is unusable resulting in total disruption of work and critical business impact. No workaround is available. P1 problems must be reported on Oro's toll-free support telephone number in order to expedite resolution. Oro will use continuous efforts during its normal hours of operation, with appropriate escalation to senior management, to provide a resolution for any P1 problem as soon as is commercially reasonable.</li>
  <li>Priority 2 (P2) – A P2 is a serious problem within the Software where a major feature/function failure has occurred - the Software is functioning but in severely reduced capacity, or the problem is causing significant impact to portions of the Licensee’s business operations and productivity, or the Software is exposed to potential loss or interruption of service. Oro will use reasonable efforts during its normal hours of operation to provide a resolution for any P2 problem as soon as is commercially reasonable.</li>
  <li>Priority 3 (P3) – A P3 is a medium-to-low impact problem that involves partial and/or non-critical loss of functionality, or that impairs some operations but allows Licensee's operations to continue to function. Problems for which there is limited or no loss or functionality or impact to Licensee's operation and for which there is an easy work-around qualify as P3. Oro will use reasonable efforts during its normal hours of operation to provide a resolution for any P3 problem in time for the next minor release of the Software.</li> 
  <li>Priority 4 (P4) – A P4 is for a general usage question or issue that may be cosmetic in nature or documentation related, but the Software works without any functional limitation. Oro will use reasonable efforts during its normal hours of operation to provide a resolution for any P4 problem in time for the next major release of the Software.</li>
  <li>Enhancement Request (ER) – An ER is a recommendation for future product enhancement or modification to add official support and documentation for unsupported or undocumented feature, or features that do not exist in the Software. Oro will take ERs into consideration in the product management process, but has no obligation to deliver enhancements based on any ER.</li>
</ol>
## 7.   Response Times. 
Oro or its authorized partner shall exercise commercially reasonable efforts to meet the response times specified below for Support, following receipt of a Software problem properly submitted by Licensee:
Oro Support Response Times:

* WEB Ticket Submission             24 x 7 x 365
* WEB Ticket Response Time*    24 business hours
* Support Hours                           M-F 09:00 - 17:00 (EST) 
* Response Time P1 Issues*        4 business hours        
* Response Time P2-P4 Issues* 24 business hours      

*From initial contact    

## 8.   Prohibited Use. 
As a condition of Licensee's use of the Forums, Licensee will not use (and will prohibit its customers from using) the Forums (i) to violate any applicable law, statute, ordinance or regulation; (ii) to disseminate content that is harmful, threatening, abusive, harassing, tortuous, defamatory, vulgar, obscene, libelous, or otherwise objectionable; (iii) to disseminate any software viruses or any other computer code, files or programs that may interrupt, destroy or limit the functionality of any computer software or hardware or telecommunications equipment; (iv) to infringe the intellectual property rights or proprietary rights, or rights of publicity or privacy, of any third party; or (v) use the Forums for any purpose other than their intended use.

## 9.   Term and Termination. 
Oro will provide Support Services and any Updates to Licensee during the Term identified in the Oro Order Form, subject to Licensee’s payment of the applicable fees. In the event Licensee fails to pay such fees to Oro or in the event Licensee materially breaches the Support Services provisions and does not cure such breach within thirty (30) days of its receipt of Oro’s notice of same, Oro may suspend or cancel Support Services.

## 10.  General. 
Oro shall not be liable for any failure or delay in performance under these Support Terms due to causes beyond its reasonable control. Any illegal or unenforceable provision shall be severed from these Support Terms. Licensee agrees that any information received pursuant to these Support Services Terms and Conditions shall also be deemed to be subject to the non-disclosure, Proprietary Material and Title and Protection obligations set forth in the License Agreement. Licensee’s obligation of payment of moneys due under these Support Services Terms and Conditions shall survive termination of these Support Services Terms and Conditions or the License Agreement. These Support Services Terms and Conditions state the entire agreement regarding provision of Support Services to Licensee and may be amended only by a written amendment set forth on a separate document executed by authorized representatives of both parties.
